README.md, before:

# @ringpublishing/accelerator-images

Accelerator Images is a feature of Ring Accelerator that allows you to serve transformed and optimized images.
When processing an incoming request, the Ring Accelerator Images variant recognizes transformation parameters encoded
in the request's path and applies them to the original image. The original image is fetched from a location pointed by website's developer.
It can be a S3 bucket, a legacy OCDN bucket, or an external domain that hosts images.

This library is a helper for Ring Accelerator Images users. It provides a set of utilities to define image transformations
and encode them into a URL that can be used in the website's HTML.

## Documentation

- List of [available transformations](https://developer.ringpublishing.com/docs/Accelerator/topics/images/transformations.html)
- [Ring Accelerator Images variant](https://developer.ringpublishing.com/docs/Accelerator/topics/variant-types/images.html)
- @ringpublishing/accelerator-images [API documentation](./docs/README.md)

### Quick start

### Using Accelerator Images variant and S3 bucket

Let's suppose that you have a content website example.com. that serves content with images. Accelerator Images variant
will help you to serve optimized images from a separate domain, e.g. images.example.com.

First, you need to configure your Accelerator Images variant. You can do it by following the [official documentation](https://developer.ringpublishing.com/docs/Accelerator/topics/variant-types/images.html).
In order for the `imageQuality('auto')` and `imageFormat('auto')` to work properly, in the variant configuration, enable [smart features](https://developer.ringpublishing.com/docs/Accelerator/topics/variant-types/images.html#smart-features).
Accelerator Images variant will fetch original images that are stored in **your** S3 bucket, apply transformations and serve them to downstream.

```ts
import { AcceleratorImage } from '@ringpublishing/accelerator-images';

const image = new AcceleratorImage({
    originalImageUrl: 's3://some-s3-bucket/images/d5b8348d9bbfce94534d66db1f330f44.jpg',
    transformationKey: 'abc',
    transformationHost: 'images.example.com'
})
    .imageQuality('auto')
    .resize(10, 10)
    .rotate(1)
    .grayscale()

const url = image.getUrl();
```

### Easy image optimization or "empty" transformation

Sometimes you do not want to transform an image, but you still want to host it via Accelerator Images variant to benefit from its cache.
The easiest way to do that would be to use something like an "empty" transformation, so that Accelerator will cache the "transformed" image and serve it
from Accelerator's long-TTL cache that is used for transformed images.

The best choice in such situation would be to use `imageQuality('auto')`. It won't apply any transformations that will affect images' size or orientation.
It will however optimize the image's quality by dynamically choosing the best quality preset depending on the network conditions reported by the end-user's browser.

```ts
import { AcceleratorImage } from '@ringpublishing/accelerator-images';

const image = new AcceleratorImage({
    originalImageUrl: 's3://some-s3-bucket/images/d5b8348d9bbfce94534d66db1f330f44.jpg',
    transformationKey: 'abc',
    transformationHost: 'images.example.com'
});
image.imageQuality('auto');

const optimizedImageUrl = image.getUrl();
```

### Parse a transformation URL and decode its parameters

Suppose that you have a URL to a transformed image, and you want to decode its parameters.

```ts
import { AcceleratorImage } from '@ringpublishing/accelerator-images';

const transformationUrl = 'https://images.example.com/1/hdDk9k_czM6Ly9zb21lLXMzLWJ1Y2tldC9pbWFnZXMvZDViODM0OGQ5YmJmY2U5NDUzNGQ2NmRiMWYzMzBmNDQuanBnk5UCCgrDw5IAAZEE3gABoTTD' // This is the URL we want to decode
const transformationKey = 'abc'; // You need to know the transformation key that was used to encode the URL.

const image = AcceleratorImage.fromTransformationUrl(transformationUrl, transformationKey);
```

### Legacy OCDN buckets

If you are using a legacy OCDN bucket, you can use the `LegacyImage` class to define transformations. 

`LegacyImage` generates valid OCDN v3 compliant transformation URLs, however it encodes the original image in a different way, so the resulting URL will be different
compared to a URL generated with the legacy `dl-ocdn` library. These two transformed images will be exactly the same but once you switch from `dl-ocdn` to `@ringpublishing/accelerator-images`,
Accelerator will regenerate the transformation.

You have to keep in mind that this library supports only OCDN v3 format. The old OCDN v2 format is not supported.

```ts
import { LegacyImage } from '@ringpublishing/accelerator-images';

const image = new LegacyImage({
    originalImageUrl: 'https://ocdn.eu/pulscms/MDA_/987654321qwerty.jpg',
    transformationKey: 'abc'
});

image.resizeCropAuto(210, 370);
const url = image.getUrl();
```

## Development and contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information about how to contribute to this project.

## Issues

If you're having problems with this library, please contact support@ringpublishing.com.

Commit message:

PULSEINC-4777 Fixed ReferenceError in browsers when encoding transformation; external image transformation described in README
Merge in OACC/lib-accelerator-images from PULSEINC-4777-documentation-improvement to master

Squashed commit of the following:

commit 5a69f2e29f4a61aa34481496660309ec79bfb2af
Author: Piotr Niewiejski <piotr.niewiejski@ringieraxelspringer.pl>
Date:   Mon May 13 08:45:52 2024 +0200

    changelog

commit b9ec6bba696dc1cfe0178e7efaf2213c7d42bad9
Author: Piotr Niewiejski <piotr.niewiejski@ringieraxelspringer.pl>
Date:   Fri May 10 17:09:45 2024 +0200

    fix linter warning

commit 12e82fdd0b1814e52ce11401791ea863c87a4c57
Author: Piotr Niewiejski <piotr.niewiejski@ringieraxelspringer.pl>
Date:   Fri May 10 16:53:25 2024 +0200

    PULSEINC-4777 Fixed ReferenceError when checking Buffer availability

commit 714b39c930f4f6a74f664a8aed451c41c0ddaf2a
Author: Marek Duława <Marek.Dulawa@ringieraxelspringer.pl>
Date:   Fri May 10 13:38:15 2024 +0200

    README.md edited online with Bitbucket

commit 58440721f1c9920b97c6b1f526fbab2c33431d83
Author: Piotr Niewiejski <piotr.niewiejski@ringieraxelspringer.pl>
Date:   Fri May 10 08:23:50 2024 +0200

    PULSEINC-4777 Quick start section of README contains an example of external image transformation

README.md, after:

# @ringpublishing/accelerator-images

Accelerator Images is a feature of Ring Accelerator that allows you to serve transformed and optimized images.
When processing an incoming request, the Ring Accelerator Images variant recognizes transformation parameters encoded
in the request's path and applies them to the original image. The original image is fetched from a location pointed by website's developer.
It can be a S3 bucket, a legacy OCDN bucket, or an external domain that hosts images.

This library is a helper for Ring Accelerator Images users. It provides a set of utilities to define image transformations
and encode them into a URL that can be used in the website's HTML.

## Documentation

- List of [available transformations](https://developer.ringpublishing.com/docs/Accelerator/topics/images/transformations.html)
- [Ring Accelerator Images variant](https://developer.ringpublishing.com/docs/Accelerator/topics/variant-types/images.html)
- @ringpublishing/accelerator-images [API documentation](./docs/README.md)

### Quick start

### Using Accelerator Images variant and S3 bucket

Let's suppose that you have a content website example.com. that serves content with images. Accelerator Images variant
will help you to serve optimized images from a separate domain, e.g. images.example.com.

First, you need to configure your Accelerator Images variant. You can do it by following the [official documentation](https://developer.ringpublishing.com/docs/Accelerator/topics/variant-types/images.html).
In order for the `imageQuality('auto')` and `imageFormat('auto')` to work properly, in the variant configuration, enable [smart features](https://developer.ringpublishing.com/docs/Accelerator/topics/variant-types/images.html#smart-features).
Accelerator Images variant will fetch original images that are stored in **your** S3 bucket, apply transformations and serve them to downstream.

```ts
import { AcceleratorImage } from '@ringpublishing/accelerator-images';

const image = new AcceleratorImage({
    originalImageUrl: 's3://some-s3-bucket/images/d5b8348d9bbfce94534d66db1f330f44.jpg',
    transformationKey: 'abc',
    transformationHost: 'images.example.com'
})
    .imageQuality('auto')
    .resize(10, 10)
    .rotate(1)
    .grayscale();

const url = image.getUrl();
```

### Using Accelerator Images variant and images from an external domain

If you don't want to store images in your S3 bucket, or your original images are provided by your CRM as a URL to some external domain, 
you can still use Accelerator Images variant to serve optimized images.

The variant configuration is going to be the same as in the previous example. The only difference is that you need to provide the original image URL
in `AcceleratorImage` constructor, instead of a S3 URI.

```ts
import { AcceleratorImage } from '@ringpublishing/accelerator-images';

const image = new AcceleratorImage({
    originalImageUrl: 'https://example.com/images/d5b8348d9bbfce94534d66db1f330f44.jpg',
    transformationKey: 'abc',
    transformationHost: 'images.example.com'
})
    .imageQuality('auto')
    .resize(10, 10)
    .rotate(1)
    .grayscale();

const url = image.getUrl();
```

### Easy image optimization or "empty" transformation

Sometimes you do not want to transform an image, but you still want to host it via Accelerator Images variant to benefit from its cache.
The easiest way to do that would be to use something like an "empty" transformation, so that Accelerator will cache the "transformed" image and serve it
from Accelerator's long-TTL cache that is used for transformed images.

The best choice in such situation would be to use `imageQuality('auto')`. It won't apply any transformations that will affect images' size or orientation.
It will however optimize the image's quality by dynamically choosing the best quality preset depending on the network conditions reported by the end-user's browser.

```ts
import { AcceleratorImage } from '@ringpublishing/accelerator-images';

const image = new AcceleratorImage({
    originalImageUrl: 's3://some-s3-bucket/images/d5b8348d9bbfce94534d66db1f330f44.jpg',
    transformationKey: 'abc',
    transformationHost: 'images.example.com'
});
image.imageQuality('auto');

const optimizedImageUrl = image.getUrl();
```

### Parse a transformation URL and decode its parameters

Suppose that you have a URL to a transformed image, and you want to decode its parameters.

```ts
import { AcceleratorImage } from '@ringpublishing/accelerator-images';

const transformationUrl = 'https://images.example.com/1/hdDk9k_czM6Ly9zb21lLXMzLWJ1Y2tldC9pbWFnZXMvZDViODM0OGQ5YmJmY2U5NDUzNGQ2NmRiMWYzMzBmNDQuanBnk5UCCgrDw5IAAZEE3gABoTTD' // This is the URL we want to decode
const transformationKey = 'abc'; // You need to know the transformation key that was used to encode the URL.

const image = AcceleratorImage.fromTransformationUrl(transformationUrl, transformationKey);
```

### Legacy OCDN buckets

If you are using a legacy OCDN bucket, you can use the `LegacyImage` class to define transformations. 

`LegacyImage` generates valid OCDN v3 compliant transformation URLs, however it encodes the original image in a different way, so the resulting URL will be different
compared to a URL generated with the legacy `dl-ocdn` library. These two transformed images will be exactly the same but once you switch from `dl-ocdn` to `@ringpublishing/accelerator-images`,
Accelerator will regenerate the transformation.

You have to keep in mind that this library supports only OCDN v3 format. The old OCDN v2 format is not supported.

```ts
import { LegacyImage } from '@ringpublishing/accelerator-images';

const image = new LegacyImage({
    originalImageUrl: 'https://ocdn.eu/pulscms/MDA_/987654321qwerty.jpg',
    transformationKey: 'abc'
});

image.resizeCropAuto(210, 370);
const url = image.getUrl();
```

## Development and contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information about how to contribute to this project.

## Issues

If you're having problems with this library, please contact support@ringpublishing.com.
